Looking back at his life, Ulisse Bezzi can remember two constants: land and photography. The first had always been a harsh necessity, the second an unconditional passion that now, at 90, has attracted the attention of U.S.-based gallery owner Keith De Lellis. The tale of how one of the most famous gallery owners in Manhattan wound up purchasing the photographs of an unheard of farmer from Ravenna, Italy, resembles, in many ways, the fairytale story of American street photographer Vivian Maier. Also a babysitter, she lived in complete anonymity among baby bottles and carriages, until she was discovered and hailed as an undisputed genius of the captured image. 

One evening, Bezzi's phone rang. "Hello, this is the Keith De Lellis Gallery calling. We would like to invite you to New York so that we could view your photos." This brief introduction, which seemed almost like a prank call, prompted a cautious rejection from the elderly photographer. But his mysterious interlocutor didn't give up. The gallery proposed a face-to-face meeting, and De Lellis offered to fly to Italy and travel to Bezzi’s house if he preferred. Around two weeks ago, they met at Bezzi's countryside home in San Pietro, Vincoli, a tiny town between Ravenna and Forli.

Hundreds of photographs completely covered the living room table. Bezzi and his wife Giulia had carefully safeguarded the photos for decades. His guests -- the gallery owner and an interpreter -- combed through work dating back to the 1950s and '60s. Some of the photos were shot with a Retinette Kodak 24/36, which Bezzi bought when he was much younger, with the money he earned from working for his neighbor during pruning season. He also shot photographs with a used Rolleiflex 6/6, which he bought for 40,000 liras. Almost all the images were in black and white, personally printed by Bezzi. He would develop them late at night, and take over the kitchen and bathroom to hang the prints. Most of his works are portraits, figures and landscapes. He has been able to transform reality into intense images, with a farmer’s personal feelings as a filter.

"I felt a need to take photographs. I don't know how to explain it in words," Bezzi told HuffPost Italy as he gently stroked his camera. "I did it my way. I wanted to do something different.”

Bezzi would take photographs after he finished working in the fields, “even if it got dark,” he said.  “I never thought about exhibitions or competitions. I only did it for my own personal pleasure."

His friends practically forced him to participate in a series of national and international exhibitions, where Bezzi's extraordinary talent was recognized. He is a self-taught photographer whose work was often awarded prizes, such as during a show in San Paolo.

Though Bezzi was unable to travel to receive his award because the trip was too long and expensive, he said such exposure must be how he came to De Lellis' attention. "He said he'd seen a large photo, indicating its size with his hands," Bezzi said. After the gallery owner made his selection and they set a price, they said their goodbyes -- and their arrivedercis (see you again soon).

Several dozen photographs took flight for the Big Apple, headed for the Keith De Lellis Gallery on Madison Avenue, an art shrine that has previously hosted works by Man Ray, Nino Migliori and Robert Doisneau. It is currently hosting an exhibition of vintage images of New York.  

"Will I go see them? That's an adventure I don't feel up to taking," admitted Bezzi. "I'm done with photography. I wouldn't know what to shoot anymore." His silent gaze confirms his decision, as he looks out toward the horizon and his fields.Last week, Governor Jerry Brown signed into law Assembly Bill 189 , a measure empowering the California Arts Council to designate areas as Cultural Districts in a competitive application process.

Craig Watson, Director of the California Arts Council said, "The signing of AB 189, is great news for communities of all sizes, all across our state ... (we will) play a central role in strengthening local communities through economic growth, increased tourism, and community cohesion. The resources we expect to bring together on a statewide level will strengthen existing districts and foster the development of new cultural hubs."

2015-09-29-1443562128-990848-artcouncil.jpg

Governor Brown, Craig Watson, and of course, Assemblyman Richard Bloom (D-Santa Monica) who introduced AB 189, all undoubtedly see the connections between the arts and creativity and, in turn, between creativity and innovation and want California to continue to lead the nation in the development of theatrical films, television, cable and Internet programs, video games, high tech hardware and software goods and services which are the heart and soul of the new economy.

AB 189 charges the Council to formulate a plan to foster Art Districts throughout the state, thereby enhancing creativity, and in the process,reinventing the landscape of cities throughout the state. The Council, always looking at ways to enhance creativity in the schools and almost everywhere art is displayed, has now joined the movement to change communities too. They will, according to the legislation, "provide technical and promotional support to the districts, as well as collaborate with public agencies and private entities to maximize the benefits to the local and state economy."

To date, 15 states have taken on a formalized State role in the creation of art and cultural districts. Together, they are leading the effort to transform America for the rapidly evolving creative economy.

According to the National Assembly of State Art Agencies, such "districts are special areas designated or certified by state governments, that utilize cultural resources to encourage economic development and foster synergies between the arts and other businesses. State cultural districts have evolved into focal points that feature many types of businesses, foster a high quality of life for residents, attract tourism and engender civic pride."

Arts districts, usually found on the periphery of a city center, are intended to create a critical mass of art galleries, dance clubs, theaters, art cinemas, music venues, and public squares for performances. Often, such places also attract cafes, restaurants and retail shops.

2015-09-15-1442343291-6046668-10BROADJP2master315.jpg

More and more however, cities are thinking about such districts as a way to insure the city attracts, nurtures and retains the creative workforce it needs to succeed in the new economy, an economy vitally dependent on creativity and innovation. As important as reinventing our systems of education, communities where people young and old spend more than half their day living and working, aspiring art and culture districts are essential to establishing vibrant and productive communities. Indeed, these places are the incubators of creativity.

Art and Culture Districts, says Theresa Cameron, formerly Local Arts Agency Services Program Manager of Americans for the Arts (AFTA), "have the potential -- with their critical mass of art galleries, cinemas, music venues, public squares for performances, restaurants, cafes and retail shops -- of attracting, and nurturing the creative workforce our cities need to succeed in the new economy." Recently AFTA has created a website devoted to the "who, what and why" these districts are so important.

2015-09-15-1442343923-5090666-NCDE.jpg

As the geographical landscape of a city morphs into a larger metropolitan region--partly because of population growth, mostly out of economic necessity -- what we call downtown becomes even more critical to the wealth and well-being of the people living in those communities. Few efforts to insure America's success and survival in the new economy could be more important.

Arkansas, Colorado, Kentucky and Massachusetts are the most recent state agencies to establish such an initiative. Eight other states recognized such districts as tax free enterprises and have adopted similar efforts. The appointees to Art Councils, usually loyal friends of the elected Governor, don't often take on issues of local economic development. But this seems to be changing, as many appointees are visionary leaders, action oriented, and making their voices heard.

States use a variety of tax incentives to encourage business development within local cultural districts. Examples of state incentives include sales, income, or property tax credits or exemptions for goods produced or sold within the district; or preservation tax credits for historic property renovations and rehabilitation. Maybe a state will offer an amusement or admission tax waiver for events within the district. All the plans vary and the funding is uniquely packaged to insure sustainability.

The "State Cultural District" designation from the Art Council seems to be enough for cities to apply, but you have to wonder what cities could do and whether smaller cities might apply if a little financial help were forthcoming. You have to wonder too, what might be possible if more organizations, chambers of commerce, economic development agencies and high tech companies in a region joined forces to help in the reinvention effort.In a two-story house in suburban Ohio, something was lurking.

Was it a strange presence in the attic, whipping around corners and rattling the floorboards, that lent the house an air of eeriness? Or was it a shadowy figure sitting stone-still in a dark basement, patiently awaiting the next underground visitor?

More likely, neither of these mystical beings were present in the childhood home of horror writer R.L. Stine. It was the absence, rather than the presence, of such scary creatures that allowed him to dream them up over the course of his storied career.

And what a storied career. Stine has written hundreds and sold millions of books over the past few decades, most of them belonging to his beloved Goosebumps and Fear Street series, made popular by TV and movie adaptations. He's still writing Fear Street books and scary adult stories -- in his most recent, The Lost Girl, a yearbook from decades earlier clues a clan of kids into a classmate's spooky identity. 

Stine’s life as a writer of the weird and wicked will be celebrated in a kid’s movie starring Jack Black, highlighting the nostalgic monsters from Goosebumps books.

“He’s a good R.L. Stine. He’s a lot more sinister than I am, Jack. He’s a lot more evil,” Stine said in an interview with The Huffington Post.

He’s right: Stine might’ve shown up to meet me wearing all black, but nothing else about his appearance alluded a witchy interior life. The creator of stories that haunted so many '90s kids’ childhoods was mostly kind, if matter-of-fact. “Kids are always disappointed when I visit schools and come out,” he said. “They expect me to be evil or maybe wear a black cape or have fangs or something, and then this old guy walks out and they say, ‘Oh, no.’”


For our full interview with R.L. Stine, listen to the audio clip.

Though capeless, Stine offered me anecdotes from his childhood, and insights into the decidedly practical writing process that would lead to such whimsical tales of horror and intrigue as Night of the Living Dummies and Say Cheese and Die. In the latter book -- a philosophical story as far as Goosebumps goes -- a mythical camera has the power to cast its subjects forever into the afterlife, or at least give those who pose for it minor injuries. Like many of Stine’s books, there are cultural references embedded within it. In fact, Stine got the idea for the book from a similar episode of “The Twilight Zone” called “A Most Unusual Camera.”

“A lot of the Goosebumps titles are from these '50s horror movies my brother and I saw every week,” Stine said. “‘It Came from Beneath the Sea’ became a Goosebumps book called It Came from Beneath the Sink. That kind of thing.”

Aside from the horror movies he saw on Sundays with his brother -- which, it’s worth noting, Stine found more funny than scary -- his childhood was typical. Beyond being bullied as a kid, there wasn’t much for him to be afraid of, at least within the walls of his own home, where Stine would stake out for hours, typing feverishly on his aunt’s typewriter.


PRISCILLA FRANK
“I was like nine years old, and I’d be in my room, typing, typing up joke magazines and funny little comics,” Stine said. “I never planned to be scary, I always just wanted to be funny. And I’d be typing up these funny stories, but I don’t know why. And my mother would be outside my door, and she’d say, ‘What’s wrong with you? Go outside and play!’ And I’d say, ‘It’s boring out there!’ Someone asked me what’s the worst advice anyone ever gave you, and I had to say, it’s my mother saying, ‘Stop typing and go outside and play.’”

Stine had been writing humor magazines for decades, developing his voice while contributing to Ohio State University's satirical paper The Sundial in the mid-'60s, before he fell slantwise into writing scary books. Under the pen name of “Jovial Bob,” he wrote 101 School Cafeteria Jokes, The Cool Kid’s Guide to Summer Camp, and, yes, 101 Silly Monster Jokes, and many others until he wrote his first horror story in 1986. Even with his Goosebumps and Fear Street series, Stine insists that it’s never his aim to write straightforwardly scary books; his stories are, in his opinion, a combination of humor and fear.

“It’s the same kind of guttural reaction,” Stine said, adding, “I’m kind of odd because scary stuff doesn’t scare me. Horror always makes me laugh. I’m always the one in the movie theatre and the shark comes up, and it chews the girl up -- I’m always the one laughing. I don’t know why.”


PRISCILLA FRANK
Perhaps its his ability to view scary situations as an objective outsider rather than a participant. When Stine describes how he began writing Goosebumps books, or where he gets his ideas for his scariest scenes, he’s notably hard-nosed. He has no illusions about divine inspiration or the uniqueness of his ideas. Instead, it’s clear that Stine views writing as a job, and his celebrated series as his successful business.

“I was so pleased with myself,” Stine said about the day he conceived of his first horror series. “I had individual titles of teen horror, I was just starting out. The first one was called Blind Date. The next was called Twisted. And the publisher wanted one a year, and I thought, gee, one a year? There must be a way to do a series. And then we started thinking about location and that kind of thing, and I thought, if I can think of a good name for the series, I’ll be off to a good start.”

The name popped into his head, a punchy-sounding packaging: “Fear Street.” From those words, he came up with a concept: rather than a recurring cast of characters, which would be impractical for a genre that concerns itself with killing off protagonists, the events would all center on a cursed residential street -- one that could exist in any suburban town.

“Of course, I always wonder why they don’t move to Happy Street,” Stine joked, adding that it was essential to him that the setting be Midwestern. Although he promptly moved to New York City after college, and still lives there with his wife and son Matthew, Stine won’t set a horror book there on principle.

“It’s a superstition,” Stine said. “I’ve never done it. A lot of kids don’t know New York. They know a nice suburban backyard, but they don’t know New York City. It’s kind of elite in some ways, I think. I think it would make the stories more obscure for kids.”


PRISCILLA FRANK
So, guided by his principles about relatable storytelling, Stine was sure to set each Goosebumps and Fear Street book in a nondescript, middle-class kitchen or basement. This virtue-driven approach echoes throughout his entire approach to writing: Stine praises the merits of a detailed outline, and of writing the titles and the endings to his scary stories first, “so I know how to fool the reader and keep them from getting to the end [before me].”

“I work backwards from most authors,” Stine said. “Most authors have an idea for a book, they write, they’re writing, later on they think of a title. I have to start with a title. It leads me to the story. Kids always ask -- everyone asks -- ‘Where do you get your ideas?’ I wanna say, ‘Where do you get your ideas?’ Because we all get ideas. Mine actually come from thinking of the title first. The first of the new Fear Street books -- Party Games -- I had that title, and I thought, it lead me to the story. There’s a party. Maybe it’s a birthday party. Maybe they’re playing some kind of games and the games get out of hand.”

Next, Stine painstakingly drafts a 15-20 page outline that includes plot and dialogue before he sets out to fill in the holes. The biggest point of deliberation that he dwells on is making sure the scares in his works are suitable for the age group he’s writing for.

“I’m very careful in Goosebumps,” Stine said. “I have to make the kids know that what’s happening in the book couldn’t really happen. That it’s just a fantasy. And then when I write a Fear Street book or an adult book, I have to make people think it could happen. It’s kind of the opposite.”

Still, he insists that most fears are universal, existing from when we’re young and gullible, through the travails of adulthood.

“I think we all have the same kind of fears. And it’s the one thing that doesn’t change. Fear of the dark, fear there’s something in the closet, fear there’s someone under your bed waiting to grab your ankle when you sit up,” Stine said. “People always say, ‘How’ve kids changed? Over all the time you’ve been writing these books, how have they changed?’ And I always say, well, the technology has changed but the fears don’t change.”

Stine, the master of crafting scary scenarios, counts himself exempt from these universal fears. When I asked him what he was scared of, he said, “Not a thing.”

Laughing, he added, “Normal adult things. All these years and I don’t have a good answer for that question. That’s terrible, isn’t it?”The music scene in Colorado has been exponentially growing and evolving which has led to a cultural explosion, especially within the counter-culture. Tucked away in the industrial bowels of Denver's River North, or RiNo district, is the Glitter Dome. Though more of a rectangular warehouse than a dome, its contents most definitely glittered. Premiering its first live show in front of a full audience on Friday, October 9th, was the underground rock opera, The Portal.

2015-10-16-1445027569-6219174-DSC_0191.jpg

In a dimly lit warehouse stood a uniquely shaped stage with rounded corners backed by large projection screens. Attendees were welcomed by a hallway of visionary art showcasing pieces from painters such as the imaginative Dela and many more. Though utilizing less than half of the warehouse, the organizers found a way to elegantly enclose the area, turning a giant gaping space into an intimate theater.

2015-10-16-1445027699-9440802-DSC_0123.jpg

The Portal is a multimedia rock opera that blends the aesthetics of acid westerns, transformational music festivals, and theater. Combining elements from various art forms, The Portal is attempting an ambitious new style of performance theater that transcends societal expectations. Produced and directed by Luke Comer, the idea was to create a narrative based on mythology and ritual that the audience not only observes but is enveloped within. A tale of challenges, transcendence and evolution, The Portal is meant to be a transformative experience not just for the protagonist, but also for the audience.

2015-10-16-1445027627-8736876-DSC_0112.jpg

The performance began with an avant-garde film, telling the story of a man who is trapped in an unhappy reality. As the protagonist, who is named Dante (Christopher Soren Kelly), escapes the confines of his office job to roam the desert in search of enlightenment, the live music begins. With a percussionist (Gilly Gonzalez), a guitarist (Jon Sousa), and a lead singer (Daniel Katsük) in the foreground, images of swirling fractals mixed with the cinematic narrative dance upon the screens. Highly emotive and symbolic, the audience is encouraged to imbue their own meaning into the story.

2015-10-16-1445027933-3453778-DSC_0208.jpg

A tale of breaking free from the shackles of one's own, self-made prison, Dante, follows a mysterious woman called Beatrice (Zarah Mahler) through red-tinted deserts and tree-spotted landscapes. Beatrice is Dante's inner light and guide, teaching him to trust his intuitions though it may feel scary to do so at times. On this journey, he encounters three archetypes that are manifested in various forms. As Dante conquers each obstacle, he is propelled forward to the next stage of his journey. The importance of the narrative is not the destination but rather the odyssey itself and the challenges he must face along the way.

2015-10-16-1445028033-6052527-DSC_0140.jpg

Two modern-style dancers (Kristin Bazurto and Rebecca Ritch) clothed in white, flowing garbs appeared on each side of the stage, undulating against the digital tie-dye as the projections glided across their movements. Including the dancers, the live cast was comprised of five people, plus a black-cloaked, scimitar-wielding death character who ominously roamed through the audience, knocking over beverages and startling unbeknownst patrons. Meanwhile, Dante's highly symbolic and abstract story is unfurling in the background creating a multi-dimensional experience for the audience.

2015-10-16-1445027795-6624280-DSC_0250.jpg

Though described as part cinema, part live concert, and part immersive theater, I felt the cinematic element was greatly emphasized over the live performance and immersive elements. The Portal has indeed reshaped the constructs and ideologies of live theater, however I found myself leaving the event wanting more. Comer has given us a taste of the true potential that lies within this unique endeavor. While all the performers and actors were immensely talented and brought Comer's concept to life, from the perspective of an audience member, a bigger cast of dancers and musicians would make The Portal feel truly immersive.

2015-10-16-1445028191-1264332-DSC_0130.jpg

Beginnings are a beautiful time that teach, guide, and inspire us. It is through beginnings that we are born, in all its forms, and where we learn to always strive for betterment. The Portal was well executed and though I felt it was wanting in some aspects of its live production, that does not change my overall perspective of the performance. Though a challenge to describe in words, I was able to see the bigger picture which Comer has crafted. Full of mythology, symbolism, growth, flawless 3D mapping, ethereal dancers, emotive actors, and mesmerizing musicianship, The Portal was an entry point that will soon flourish, evolve, and transcend.

The Portal will be running twice a week through the month of October until the 31st in Denver, Colorado and will hopefully visit more cities soon!Perhaps your 7-year-old self dressed up as a butterfly for Halloween -- no judgment, same here. Or maybe your 9-year-old self plastered her composition notebook full of butterfly stickers. Or, your 12-year-old self looked like she was in the middle of being attacked by an angry hoard of butterflies thanks to the barrettes, chokers and platforms beloved by tween girls in the '90s. 

If any of this rings true, allow me to take you on a journey through time, back before butterflies became the adorable emblems of feminine fashionability they are today -- or at least, were in 1997. Let's travel back to the 17th century when butterflies were certainly not trendy. In fact, many presumed the whimsical insects to be demonic. 

"For some people, these creatures were the work of the Devil, and those who were interested in them were surely up to no good -- why, they might even be witches, who must be put to death," Boris Friedewald writes in A Butterfly Journey, a brief history of a woman who dared to devote her entire life to them. 

That woman was Maria Sibylla Merian. During her lifetime, she'd become the first to observe living insects instead of preserved specimens, to debunk the theory that bugs arose spontaneously from the mud, and to chronicle the entire metamorphosis process of a butterfly. She also created a trove of drawings, painstakingly accurate and stunning depictions of nature's most minuscule creatures, themselves as complex as a humongous beast or bountiful landscape. 

<span class='image-component__caption' itemprop="caption"><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maria_Sibylla_Merian">via Wikimedia Commons</a></span>
via Wikimedia Commons
Merian was born in 1647 in Frankfurt -- then a free city of the Holy Roman Empire. Her father was a publisher, providing her access to many books about natural history growing up. After he passed away when she was 3 years old, her mother wed a painter of still lifes. At 13 years old, she made her first painting -- a rendering of an insect she'd captured amongst plants. 

Merian married her stepfather's apprentice and the two had two daughters. Instead of following custom and working alongside her husband, Merian provided drawing lessons to young, unmarried women, providing her access into the verdant gardens of the upper class. Merian and her husband later divorced.

In 1679, Merian published her first book at 28 years old, a two-volume exploration of insect metamorphosis. In the foreward, Merian wrote: "I spent my time investigating insects. At the beginning, I started with silk worms in my home town of Frankfurt. I realized that other caterpillars produced beautiful butterflies or moths, and that silkworms did the same. This led me to collect all the caterpillars I could find in order to see how they changed. I withdrew from human society and engaged exclusively in these investigations."

The book was augmented by Merian's unique scientific illustrations, which collapsed multiple images of butterflies at their various stages of life into a sort of ecological collage, combined with the flora and fauna that comprised their habitats. Until then, few had shown interest in the lowly creatures on the food chain. The commonly held belief at the time was that bugs were born through a "spontaneous generation of rotting mud."

<span class='image-component__caption' itemprop="caption">via <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maria_Sibylla_Merian">Wikimedia Commons</a></span>
via Wikimedia Commons
Merian continued her work despite the fact that, as a woman, the odds were stacked against her. At the time, universities were exclusively male and, strangely, women were forbidden from painting with oils. She instead opted for gouache and watercolor. In the three years following her first book, she produced four more. 

In 1691, Merian moved with her daughters to Amsterdam, studying the preserved insect collections of a wealthy doctor. Yet the lifeless subject matter left something to be desired. "In these collections I had found innumerable other insects," she wrote in Metamorphosis Insectorum Surinamensium, "but finally if here their origin and their reproduction is unknown, it begs the question as to how they transform, starting from caterpillars and chrysalises and so on. All this has, at the same time, led me to undertake a long dreamed of journey to Suriname."

Suriname is a small country on the northeastern coast of South America, known in part for its tropical rainforests. Merian wanted to forge a scientific expedition to the equatorial habitat, though, at the time, government funding for academic pursuits was typically only provided to men. For eight years, Merian studied and built her case and finally, in 1699, embarked on a cargo ship with her 22-year-old daughter to Suriname on a grant from Amsterdam. A journey as dangerous as this, without a male companion, was virtually unheard of. 

Although she was supposed to spend five years illustrating new insects, she returned home after two, after contracting malaria abroad. Her 1705 book Insects of Suriname documented the fruits of her journey, describing the insects she discovered, as well as their uses and habits. The book also contained 60 engravings illustrating the different stages of insect development in what was one of the first illustrated accounts of Suriname's natural history.

Despite her immense contributions to the field, she's rarely cited for her work in mainstream scholarship. Because of her lack of education and, yes, the fact that she was a woman, Merian fell into relative obscurity. When she died in 1717, she was described by the city of Amsterdam’s register of deaths as a woman "without means."

Recently, Merian has started to receive some of the recognition she so gravely deserves. (What I mean by that, mostly, is that in 2013 she got her own Google doodle.) But her name remains unknown in many art and science circles.

Still, without Merian's skill and courage, we might never have known that bugs aren't demonic creatures that shoot out of the ground. Or that butterflies begin as caterpillars and become chrysalis and then the real-deal, winged butterfly.

And then, of course, there's the frightening possibility that that adorable butterfly costume of yours never would have existed. 

Europeans have tried to take New York for hundreds of years. The fact that we keep coming is a measure of our optimism and, of course, our stupidity. Manhattan is littered with the detritus of failed attempts to impress it. I know this because I tried -- and failed -- to take New York once before.

In 1999 an Irish publisher hired me to edit a new guide to luxury goods. Described in the Financial Times as "the yellow pages for billionaires," America's Elite 1000 was supposed to show its readers how to be classy. Being Irish, half Jewish and nearly as brazen as my boss, my function was to dazzle New York society with my chutzpah and gift of the gab. "I'm going uptown," he told me, "and you're going to open the door." Together we walked into a great many closed doors, and I have scars to prove it. This frivolous venture collapsed shortly after 9/11, at which point we shuffled back across the pond.

Upon returning to Ireland I launched The Dubliner, in the hope that my compatriots were ready for a magazine of ideas. They weren't, but I spent eight years trying to prove the country wrong, only selling the title to another publisher in 2008, as the economy was falling off a cliff. Then I opened a non-profit museum of Dublin. To the amazement of my wife, my accountant and most of my friends, we are still in business.

New York ate me alive -- but I'm still hungry. Next month I return with an exhibition, Dear Christy, and a new play, The Private View, at the American Irish Historical Society on Fifth Avenue. The exhibition showcases the personal archive of the writer and artist Christy Brown, while my play is about John Lowe, a young Englishman who played a bizarre role in Irish history and went on to act in 80 movies.

Returning to New York is perhaps an act of epic folly, but I do feel proud of the work this time, and I take some comfort in the fact that my subjects both enjoyed some success in the city.

2015-10-15-1444928144-2334038-ChristyathomeinKimmage1971_web.jpg

Christy Brown in 1971 - The Little Museum of Dublin/National Library of Ireland

Christy Brown was hailed as a genius by the New York Times. Reviewing his novel Down All the Days, a critic concluded, "Nothing quite like this book has been known in literature." Christy was memorably played by Daniel Day Lewis in an Oscar-winning film, My Left Foot, which brought the remarkable story of his life to millions of Americans.

John Lowe was arguably more successful still. In his memoir, Lowe - who changed his name to John Loder when he went to the United States - recalled,
"Starring in a hit play on Broadway is something all actors dream about... The number plate of my limousine read JL1 and I was on first name terms with every policeman within a mile of Times Square."
2015-10-15-1444928208-420271-Hedy_Lamarr_and_John_Loder.jpg Unfortunately the stories of Christy Brown and John Loder also prove that success in America can be illusory, even capricious. Christy Brown came to a miserable end, choking to death at the age of 49. After divorcing for the fifth time, John Loder returned alone to London, where he was given a bed in the Distressed Gentlefolks Aid Association. These days he's remembered, if at all, as the man who married that actress: Mr Hedy Lamarr.

Yet still we come, looking for approval on the greatest stage of all, with President Obama's description of the American Dream ringing in our ears: where you start should not determine where you end up. But let's be honest, that's not really a promise. It's an aspiration. And in the 16 years since my last attempt to take New York I have learned that dreams rarely come true. This should be depressing, but it's not.
"Try again. Fail again. Fail better."
The man who wrote those words, Samuel Beckett, was born in Dublin, of course, but he remains admired wherever people dare to fail and try again.

Will anyone come to see my play? Is New York ready for the return of Christy Brown? And will we ever learn? Find out next month, or look the other way.