As President Obama continues to slug around the White House wearing flip-flops, a Von Dutch hat and earbuds in with the Yeezus album playing on the other end, in what seems like his final two weeks at work, rumors have begun to swirl around Michelle Obama's own lack of effort as the country's First Lady.

A long-standing advocate of youth health and wellness, and founder of the Let's Move campaign, sources have leaked that the FLOTUS has grown frustrated with her inability to rid the country of fat kids.

The source noted that Michelle's confidence has dipped and is coming to a realization that she is unable to fight the rival Treat Yo'self Movement. It's been reported that the president's wife has not been seen at a Let's Move meeting in more than two months, with speculation that she has locked herself in her room to binge-watch episodes of Friends on Netflix.

When reached for comment, the First Lady rejected the rumors, stating, "Could I BE more involved?!" as the distinctive sound of the sides of two fists banging together were heard through the phone.

"I'm not sure how this whole Friends-watching rumor started, but I think it would serve the country well to pivot, really PIVOT, our attention back on the Let's Move program instead of childish, false accusations."

Asked about her absence from the meetings, Obama continued, "Listen, I only missed, like, two meetings with the group -- we were on a break, but I've never given up on the campaign. It's my lobster."

She was pressed further regarding issues surrounding the menu items that have caused more than 1.4 million children to drop out of lunch programs nationwide: "Our unagi is very much directed towards this issue. We've taken a look at the food options that we've made available, and with adjusting the phalange, I think we'll be in a good place."

The First Lady was asked if comments made back in 2011 by former obese child and current fat man, New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, where he stated that he doesn't believe government should dictate and control the country's food options, were something that she thinks about as she sees the current struggles on the lunch line.

"I heard what he was saying, but it's like a cow's opinion. It just doesn't matter. It's moo," said Obama.

Sounding like a direct shot at Christie's weight, Obama continued, "Oh, no, I'm not calling him a cow, that's not what I meant, that was just something Joey had sai--" a White House spokesman had cut her off at that point and put us on hold, where we were left with an original rendition of what we believe was a song titled "Smelly Joe."Every now and then I silently curse myself for having more fat than I, perhaps theoretically, should. I'm not overweight, but I haven't been a true size 4 since my mom doubled as my stylist. (She claimed that corduroy pants and khaki slacks we THE fashion trend of 2006. I later fired her when I first went to American Apparel.) I don't eat nearly as well as I should and working out is only appealing to me after I've watched the critically acclaimed teen comedy Stick It. But, being the female that I am, I've always felt slightly inferior to women who could pull off A-line dresses and the "Sandy at the end of Grease" look. I couldn't escape the fact that the "rail thin look where clothes just appeared to fall off you" was appealing and intriguing to me. But today something happened that made me feel completely otherwise.

I bike a lot through the city of Chicago because public transportation can eat a dick, and cars are only for people of financial or burglary success. My bike's name is Peggy. She's sassy and self-sufficient and doesn't take shit from buses and cars that tell her to shut up and wait. I have a bright gold helmet that I wear whenever I bike because it's the statement of a lifetime and can be seen from at least 16 miles away. When it comes to biking, I've got swag for years. But the other day, this didn't do much for me.

To make a long story the right length that blog stories should always be, I was biking down the street, trying to merge, when a mini-SUV sideswiped me. My bike turned too sharply, and I hit the ground, separated from Peggy. For a second, I didn't know what happened. I quickly got up with my arms in the air, like a gymnast who's all like "ya I fell off the beam, but I meant to. What's my score?" After realizing nothing was majorly wrong, I took my bike to the side of the road, finished filing a quick police report, and did what any basic betch with not much life trauma would do: waited for my mom to arrive and cried.

We went to the doctor to check it off the list of "things a not-dumbass would probably do after a dumbass minor bicycle/car collision accident." But I was actually worried I had sprained my tailbone. As I sat on the examining table, a table that will forever be too tall for my legs to touch the ground, I legit worried I really had screwed up my back, which wasn't good because I had a fucking musical to do that weekend (#americanidiotchi). The doctor came in and judged me for my chipped nail polish. I was a little "fuck you" about it, pero like whatever. He took out my chart and started clearing off things he thought might be damaged. One by one, everything checked out as bruised but not majorly damaged (like Britney Spears' heart post 2007). So I was fine. And as he was leaving, he told me something I will forever be proud of:

"You know, thank god you have some fat on your back end. Your buttox cushioned your fall. A girl with no fat would've have much more serious damage."

This was great for two reasons:

1. LOL to anyone who legitimately uses "buttox" in a serious context.

2. Who knew having a little extra fat could be a source for good? For the first time, I was happy to say that I was thankful for having a little extra weight on me. If there's ever been a situational example to accept your body for what it is, this is the Rosetta Stone, the rock (not the language learning application). Not only did I accept it, I welcomed it into my exclusive circle of friends, invited it out for pizza on the regular, and told it that it was pretty on a regular basis. My body was the size and shape that it was, and I was never so thankful to not have a flat, boney butt.

My ass literally saved my ass. For the first time I thought: Thank god for my ass fat. My most pretty yet practical body part.The Medical Boards for all 50 States in the Union announced today that they have revoked Ben Carson's medical license and will no longer allow him to operate as a brain surgeon any where in the U.S. And they cited as their reason Carson's mental and intellectual challenges -- otherwise known as the propensity to sound like a total and utter nutcase.

In a joint statement, the Medical Boards said: We have been increasingly concerned about the gibberish emanating from Mr. Carson's cerebrum. We cite by way of example his belief that the holocaust could have been prevented by armed German citizens, that straight people go into prison and come out gay, and that Obamacare is the worse thing to happen to the country since slavery.

We are therefore suspending his medical license in any state where he is qualified to practice. And should he choose to come out of retirement and re-apply for credentials, we will not allow him to operate on people's cerebrums, or indeed cerebullums, limbic systems and brain stems, until he can demonstrate that his own are in fully working order."

While appearing on The Really Bad Situation Room with Wolf Blitzer, Ben Carson said: "I'm very disappointed to hear this news and I categorically deny I'm crazy. I think this is a concerted effort by Dr. Gregory House, Dr. No, Dr. Who and Dr. Doolittle to undermine my candidacy for the Presidency and I am therefore going to ignore it and carry on with my campaign regardless."

In his defense, Carson also highlighted comments made by other Republican candidates for the Presidency too. "Listen, Donald Trump thinks he can deport 11 million people back to Mexico and then get Mexico to pay for a wall to stop them coming back in.

Carly Fiorina believes she can run the entire United States of America even after running little old HP into the ground.

And Ted Cruz doesn't want to work with Democrats to get things done, and yet he told Fox News in 2012 that he's prepared to work with Martians! I mean seriously, if I'm a loony tune, these folks must be too."

Unfortunately for the Republican party, Carson's assertions have been borne out by the latest Real Clear Polidicks opinion poll. On the question of which Republican candidate is the most "bat shit crazy", Ben Carson is tied in equal first place with Donald Trump, Carly Fiorina, Ted Cruz, Marco Rubio, Jeb Bush, Chris Christie, John Kasich and Rand Paul.

The poll was conducted earlier this week, it had 330 million respondents and no margin for error.Reading articles is something people do on the Internet. In fact, you're probably reading this article right now. But how can you be certain that you're reading this article right now? If you're not entirely sure you're reading this article right now, check out these signs:

1. You're pretty sure you're reading this article right now.

Being pretty sure you're reading this article right now is a good sign that you may actually be reading this article right now.

2. You're very sure you're reading this article right now.

Being very sure you're reading this article right now is a good sign that you may actually be reading this article right now.

3. You see these words right now.

This is also a strong sign.

4. The last word you read was was

Again, very strong sign.

5. And now it's it's

Yup. That's a big sign right there.

6. You're still pretty sure you're reading this article right now

Another strong sign.

7. You're still very sure you're reading this article right now

Oh yes. Big sign.

8. When you ask another person in the room with you if you are reading this article right now and they respond, "yes"

They're probably not lyin'

9. You remember clicking the link to this article

Not only a big sign, but a great life memory to have.

10.	You are reading this article right now.

A great sign that you're probably reading this article right now.

So, are you reading this article right now? Let me know in the comments below!

One of my favorite TV personalities is Michael Strahan, the former football star who appears on ABC's Good Morning America with Kelly Ripa. Strahan was a strapping defensive end who played 15 years for the New York Giants, helping them win a Super Bowl in 2007. But his size belies a gentle, good humored personality that I find engaging. I am at least in part a Strahan fan because I know he is an Army brat who confirms my prejudice in favor of military families that provide a solid upbringing for millions of youngsters. He's good people.

Strahan has a new book out, Wake Up Happy: The Dream Big, Win Big Guide to Transforming Your Life. He is a fellow who has known hardship and for sure playing professional football is not an easy way to earn a living, but he exudes a joie de vivre that is contagious. Millions of people tune into ABC in the morning I assume because he and Kelly give them a jolt of joy to start off the day.

Actually, I think that is what every American needs these days. We are beset on every side by expressions of anger and frustration that to me seems wildly disproportionate to our troubles.

The radio blares an incessant roar of billingsgate by agitated people who want us to believe everyone in high places is conspiring to betray our country. The Congress is in constant turmoil as Senators and Congressmen rush to stake out the most extreme positions, accusing the loyal opposition of bad faith. The newspapers, news magazines and social media are caught up in the noisy cacophony that seems always at a fever pitch.

As one who has lived through the Great Depression and World War II, and fought in Korea and Vietnam, I do not believe the problems facing our nation today are all that dire. In fact, I believe I can safely say that previous generations of Americans have lived through much harder times without losing their capacity for civil discourse. Something has gone terribly wrong among a people that has lost its sense of humor.

Even the comedians today are caught up in the viciousness. Their humor is laced with profane broadsides at people in public life. Every joke is a dagger aimed at someone's heart. They get lots of laughs, but there is no happy in their humor.

I was raised on a generation of comics who used good-natured humor to make people laugh at themselves and escape temporarily from the daily grind -- people like Red Skelton, George Burns and Gracie Allen, George Gobel, Bob Hope and Sid Caesar. They did not have to employ profanity or tear people down to get laughs. They made you laugh and feel better about yourself and the world around you.

We have our troubles today, but they pale in comparison to what previous generations endured. And yet they always had the ability to laugh and rise above the fray. What's missing in Washington today, and it seems just about everywhere else, is a sense of humor, the ability to laugh at ourselves and with other people instead of at them.

Israeli comedian Benji Lovitt's personal Facebook account has been as hot as the southern Israeli desert in the middle of July. The sarcastic immigrant from Texas has been on something of a comedic roll over the past week with his humorous posts on the social network.

While Lovitt, who lives in Tel Aviv, isn't taking up arms to defend his fellow Israelis during the ongoing wave of brutal knife attacks by Palestinian terrorists that has plagued the Jewish nation, he is making it his mission to bring some levity to the situation. In a recent Tablet Magazine article, Lovitt explained that he "feels that the best way he can serve his country during this time is to raise the morale of those whose spirits are down."

Some of Lovitt's posts over the past few days have been garnering close to 1,000 likes, which is unusual for a personal Facebook account. I asked the popular comedy writer, who also performs standup, leads Birthright Israel tours and teaches, why he thinks his fellow Israelis (and Jews in the Diaspora) have been so receptive of his "foxhole humor" on Facebook.

"It's a bit cliche in the circles I run in, but people, especially Jews, laugh to keep from crying," Lovitt said. "In a place like Israel, some of the best comedy comes out in times of conflict. During Operation Protective Edge in 2014 and again this past week, I sort of live-blogged the conflict on social media through comedy."

I personally find Lovitt's humor to be refreshing amidst all of the negative news coming out of the region, but I was curious if he ever feels it's too sensitive of a situation to mock. "At times, I feared it was 'too soon' or I had crossed the line of inappropriateness but the feedback I consistently get is that people really need it. I try not to make light of tragedy or death but to express something that everybody is feeling; either fear, depression, anger toward terror, or just to create a release for something we're all thinking but not saying (like the annoyance of hearing a siren going off when you're sitting on the toilet, what happened when rockets were launched by Hamas in 2014).

Lovitt's posts have ranged from the self-deprecating ("I am not willing to let terrorists scare me into changing the way I live my life. If I want to eat Doritos for dinner, that's my disgusting choice to make.") to the harsh criticism of the Palestinian leadership through sarcasm ("Mahmoud Abbas just called for a moment of silence for the boy the Israelis "executed" who is currently eating raspberry jello.")

One of Lovitt's Facebook posts gave a tip of the hat to the sitcom Seinfeld, which was just as popular in Israel as it was in the United States. Showing how humane Israeli hospital workers were being, even to the terrorists, Lovitt posted, "An interview on Israeli television showed hospital staff treating terrorists before the victims if their wounds were more serious. I can't believe Elaine's idea in the Chinese restaurant of serving people based on hunger level is being adapted to the Arab-Israeli conflict."

Due to the seven-hour time difference between the East Coast of the United States and Israel, many of Lovitt's fans outside of Israel find themselves waking up to his humor, as he posted his jokes early in the morning in Israel when Americans are still asleep. For Israelis, Lovitt's humor has been an appreciated coping mechanism. For non-Israelis, his tongue-in-cheek missives have been a welcome change from the dark and dreadful reality that other Israelis have been posting on social media.

While there have been times Lovitt has found it challenging to find any humor in such a scary situation, he ultimately recognizes that humor has helped the Jewish people survive through the most menacing times. "If I can raise people's morale at all or maybe help them forget about the conflict for even a moment," he reasons, "I guess that's something I'll do my best to do."