Fifty miles north of the Hawaiian island of Kauai, more than a mile below the ocean surface, lies a dark, watery graveyard of ships.

Since 1999, 52 vessels have reached their final resting place here as part of SINKEX, the Navy’s ship sinking program.

SINKEX uses retired ships for live-fire target practice, which involves towing them out to sea and shooting at them with missiles and torpedoes until they plunge beneath the surface.

"The U.S. Navy has a long history of using decommissioned vessels for weapons development testing and fleet combat training," Agnes T. Tauyan, a spokeswoman for Navy Region Hawaii, told The Huffington Post in an email. "The SINKEX program results in numerous benefits to the Navy by providing environmentally sound target vessels for at-sea live-fire exercises."


But SINKEX has plenty of critics, including those who say sinking old ships wastes recyclable steel and negatively affects the marine environment.

"It's an unfortunate leftover of a bygone era," Marti Townsend, director of Hawaii's chapter of the Sierra Club, told HuffPost. "The U.S. should just not be this wasteful anymore."

Conservation groups, including the Sierra Club and Basel Action Network, filed a lawsuit against the Environmental Protection Agency in 2011, alleging the agency has failed to prevent the SINKEX program from polluting the sea with toxic chemicals -- specifically, polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs, a group of chemicals that are dangerous to human health.

While the plaintiff groups were forced to drop the complaint in 2013 due to a lack of funding, their concerns remain the same, BAN's Colby Self told HuffPost that 

"Nothing has changed whatsoever ... They're still dumping tons of toxic materials," he said.

<span class='image-component__caption' itemprop="caption">A Mexican helicopter fires explosive rockets at the ex-USS Conolly during a sinking exercise in 2009.</span>
U.S. COAST GUARD/PETTY OFFICER SETH JOHNSON
A Mexican helicopter fires explosive rockets at the ex-USS Conolly during a sinking exercise in 2009.
PCBs have been banned globally because they're "some of the most dangerous pollutants around," according to a 2012 statement by Emily Jeffers of the Center for Biological Diversity, a group that joined the Sierra Club and BAN in petitioning the EPA to address the health and environmental risks associated with SINKEX.

"They leach from sunken ships into the ocean and accumulate in the bodies of fish, dolphins and whales," she wrote. "Our oceans should never be used as a dump for poison.”

According to the petition the environmental groups submitted to the EPA, SINKEX missions are becoming more common as the Navy looks to dispose of its inventory of inactive vessels in a cost-effective manner: from 1970 to 1999, SINKEX missions accounted for 8 percent of all Navy vessel disposals; from 2000 to 2010, they accounted for 65 percent.

The EPA ultimately denied the petitioners' requests, saying existing regulations sufficiently "address the risks to human health and the environment from PCBs." 

The Navy puts each vessel through a "rigorous cleaning process" before sinking it, Tauyan told HuffPost. She said this includes removing all PCBs, trash, mercury- or fluorocarbon-containing materials, fuel and other potentially harmful substances.

Townsend, however, is not convinced. "There's no amount of cleaning that can guarantee it's all gone," she said.

<span class='image-component__caption' itemprop="caption">The decommissioned USS Towers, an old destroyer, slowly sinks in the Pacific Ocean after being used as a target for live-fire sinking exercises.</span>
U.S. NAVY/MATE AIRMAN ANDREW BETTING
The decommissioned USS Towers, an old destroyer, slowly sinks in the Pacific Ocean after being used as a target for live-fire sinking exercises.
The Navy imposed a moratorium on the SINKEX missions in 2010 to conduct a comprehensive review of the requirements, costs, benefits and environmental impact of the program. The missions resumed in 2012, however, when three inactive vessels were sunk off Kauai as part of the biennial Rim of the Pacific naval exercises. Two more ships met the same fate in 2014. 

SINKEX missions take place in the general area around 23 degrees 53 minutes north latitude and 159 degrees 35 minutes west longitude, Tauyan said. To minimize potential harm, the Navy sinks the ships in water at least 6,000 feet deep and at least 50 nautical miles from land, and only after the area has been surveyed for the presence of marine mammals.

The Navy says SINKEX events provide a unique opportunity to conduct testing and training activities and refine live-fire tactics, techniques and procedures.

"SINKEX events enhance combat readiness by providing realistic training that cannot be duplicated in simulators," Tauyan wrote.

<span class='image-component__caption' itemprop="caption">Ex-USNS Concord is used as a target vessel for Her Majesty's Canadian Ship Victoria (SSK 876) off Kauai, Hawaii, on July 17, 2012.</span>
U.S. PACIFIC FLEET/FLICKR
Ex-USNS Concord is used as a target vessel for Her Majesty's Canadian Ship Victoria (SSK 876) off Kauai, Hawaii, on July 17, 2012.
Share on Pinterest
No sinking exercises are approved for the remainder of 2015, but Rim of the Pacific naval exercises -- which the U.S. Pacific Fleet hosts every two years -- will return to the waters around Hawaii in 2016. RIMPAC is the world’s largest international maritime war exercise: In 2014, 22 nations, 49 surface ships, six submarines, more than 200 aircraft and 25,000 personnel participated in the exercises.

"Historically, each RIMPAC has included sinking exercises, and that is an option that is being considered, but the details are not yet finalized for 2016," Tauyan told HuffPost.

The Navy conducts most of its sinking exercises at four major locations -- north of Kauai, off the coast of California, off the coast of the eastern U.S. and off the coast of Puerto Rico.

Watch the video below to see harpoon and naval strike missiles sink the decommissioned USS Ogden:Bill Maher wants to make sure supporters of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) vote for the eventual Democratic presidential nominee -- even if it turns out to be Hillary Clinton.

It’s as easy as eating an airplane meal with chicken when they are all out of fish, he said Friday on HBO’s “Real Time with Bill Maher.”

Before sitting down to interview Sanders, Maher polled his studio audience to see how many of them supported Sanders and how many preferred Hillary Clinton.

Not surprisingly, Maher’s progressive audience members were feeling the Bern. Far more of them cheered when asked if they were backing Sanders than when asked if they were supporting Clinton.

“But if Bernie doesn’t get the nomination, who will stay home and not vote for [Hillary]?” Maher asked. Only one person clapped faintly to indicate she would not vote for the eventual Democratic nominee if it is Clinton.

Maher was pleased.

“See exactly,” he exclaimed. “We have two good candidates. It’s like on the airlines: Sometimes you don’t get the fish, you have the chicken. ‘I’ll eat the chicken if I have to!’”

Maher made clear that Sanders is still his first choice.

“So let me introduce the man, who, in my view, is chicken, fish and the kosher meal, Bernie Sanders!” Maher said.Democrats and independents have been looking a little more favorably on Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) since he announced in September that he would be resigning from Congress.

Boehner's favorable rating has climbed to 31 percent, according to a Gallup poll released Thursday. That's up 8 percentage points since August.

The bump is a direct result of better feelings among Democrats and independents. Thirty percent of Democrats now have a favorable opinion of the speaker, a significant rise from 19 percent in August. Among independents, 29 percent rate him favorably, up from 17 percent in August.

Republicans' views of Boehner remain largely unchanged. Thirty-six percent rate him favorably, essentially no change from 37 percent in August. 

Gallup conjectures that perhaps having seen the Republican Party's ultra-conservative wing force him out, Democrats and independents now see Boehner as "more of an ally." 

Despite the rise in his favorable rating, Boehner remains largely unpopular among Americans, with a net negative rating of 14 percent. Other than a brief period right after he took the House's top job in 2011, overall opinion of Boehner has remained in the negatives throughout his tenure as speaker. 

Still, low favorable ratings are not unusual for speakers of the House. Gallup notes that two of Boehner's recent predecessors, Democrat Nancy Pelosi and Republican Newt Gingrich, experienced low favorable ratings during their tenures. 

Boehner initially announced he would resign from Congress on Oct. 30. However, when his expected successor, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) abruptly dropped out of the race, Boehner postponed his caucus' vote on a new speaker and said he would stay on the job until a replacement was chosen. 

﻿Gallup surveyed 1,015 adults nationally using live interviewers via landline and cell phone from Oct. 7 to 11. WASHINGTON -- Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) insists his Benghazi Committee investigation isn't about hurting 2016 Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton in the polls. It's about providing a definitive account of the 2012 attack on a U.S. consulate in Libya.

But if you look at the witness interviews he's attended, and not attended, there is a clear theme: Gowdy is mostly there for the people directly connected to Clinton.

A House Democratic aide familiar with the committee's process tells The Huffington Post that, as of Friday morning, there have been 53 interviews and depositions with witnesses called in for Gowdy's probe. The closed-door interviews are staff-led, said the aide, so when members do come, they are typically passive observers.

Gowdy has attended fewer than 10 of the 53. He was there for Cheryl Mills, Clinton's chief of staff when she was secretary of state; Jake Sullivan, Clinton's former deputy chief of staff and current foreign policy adviser on her presidential campaign; Sidney Blumenthal, a longtime Clinton adviser; and Bryan Pagliano, a State Department staffer who managed Clinton's private email server.

Whom didn't Gowdy go to hear? Three of the four diplomatic security agents who survived the terrorist attack. He also didn't attend interviews with CIA Deputy Director Michael Morell or former Defense Intelligence Agency Director Michael Flynn.

"Would seem to suggest where his priorities lie," the aide said.

Gowdy spokesman Jamal Ware said the congressman has been to plenty of meetings relating to the Benghazi investigation.

“Chairman Gowdy has been to interviews and meetings running the gamut from attack survivors to DOJ debriefings to compliance hearings to intelligence officials, interviews and meetings that are both classified and unclassified, both before and during the pendency of the current Select Committee investigation," Ware said. "He has attended to far more matters that do not involve Clinton than those that do, including ones involving the White House, State Department on witness document production, and the CIA."

He added that Rep. Elijah Cummings (Md.), the ranking Democrat on the committee, wasn't at many of those witness interviews either.

Republicans on the committee brought in Huma Abedin, a top Clinton aide, on Friday. Cummings said it made no sense that she was there.

"She has no policy responsibilities, no operational responsibilities, was not with Secretary Clinton on the night of this phenomenal tragedy," Cummings told reporters. "The question also becomes whether this is a taxpayer-funded effort to derail the candidacy of Hillary Clinton."

Gowdy did not attend Abedin's interview.

Republicans continue to say their probe isn't political, but House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) suggested otherwise last month when he said the committee has succeeded in hurting Clinton's presidential bid. 


Rep. Richard Hanna (R-N.Y.), too, said Wednesday that the panel was set up largely to go after Clinton.

"This may not be politically correct, but I think that there was a big part of this investigation that was designed to go after people and an individual, Hillary Clinton," Hanna said on a New York radio show.

Gowdy slammed Hanna shortly afterward.

“My team of investigators, drawn from the military, federal agencies and the congressional oversight and ethics committees, has worked hard, and in an above-board manner," he said in a statement. "It is unfortunate when claims are made by those who do not know what the committee has done, why it has done it, or the results of its work."

Republican leaders formed the Select Committee on Benghazi nearly a year and a half ago and, so far, have spent $4.5 million on its work. There have been at least seven previous investigations.

Clinton is testifying before the full committee on Oct. 22.The United States is among the richest countries in all of history. But if you're not a corporate or political elite, you'd never know it.

In the world working people inhabit, our infrastructure is collapsing, our schools are laying off teachers, our drinking water is barely potable, our cities are facing bankruptcy, and our public and private pension funds are nearing collapse. We - consumers, students, and homeowners - are loaded with crushing debt, but our real wages haven't risen since the 1970s.

How can we be so rich and still have such poor services, so much debt and such stagnant incomes?

The answer: runaway inequality - the ever-increasing gap in income and wealth between the super-rich and the rest of us.

This isn't the first time that a tiny elite has gained extraordinary control over economic and political life. Ancient Egypt had the Pharaohs. Medieval Europe had feudal lords and kings. We Americans had industrial robber barons.

And today, we've got financial and corporate elites.

Runaway inequality is upending how we see ourselves and how we govern. It is upending the American Dream (the cherished idea that life gets better and better with each generation). And it is upending the practice of democracy and the very idea that each of us has roughly equal influence in governing our country.

It's time to face up to runaway economic inequality - what causes it, what it's doing to us, and what we can do about it.

This book has four aims:

1. Shine a light on economic inequality: It's worse than you think
For all the talk about economic inequality, most of us have no idea how bad it really is. It's as if our native sense of justice won't let us comprehend how outrageously unequal our economy has become and how much worse it's getting day by day. Maybe we're just too fair-minded to wrap our minds around the level of systematic greed that now permeates society's top echelons.

We'll look at just how wide the gap is between the super-rich and the rest of us, and how rapidly it is accelerating. A very small group of economic elites is accumulating more and more of the country's resources while the rest of us stand still or fall further behind.

But the problem goes beyond how many dollars we have (or don't): Runaway inequality is tearing apart the fabric of our soci¬ety. The super-rich live in a world that no longer requires mutual reliance on common public services. Elites generally don't use our schools, our roads, our airports. They don't really care if our infrastructure collapses. We are cracking into two separate societies.

At the same time, the super-rich are able to park trillions of dollars far from the reach of the tax collector. By avoiding and evading taxes, with help from an army of lawyers and bankers, the rich are undermining the government services that the rest of us need. So our roads and bridges crumble, our environment becomes contaminated, our children crowd into our rundown schools. We pay a fortune out of pocket for higher education and poor quality health care. And some of us with darker pigmentation are targeted for arrest and fines in order to help fund local government, while also facing poverty and police violence.

Runaway inequality undermines the practice of democracy. As the rich get richer and richer, it gets easier and easier for them to buy political favors. They can twist the media, elected officials, and government agencies to do their bidding. They vote with their money, which makes a mockery of our democratic "one vote, one person" creed. We'll see data showing that elected officials rarely act on the agenda most Americans support. Instead they represent the wishes of the affluent.

Using over 100 easy to read charts and graphs as well as text, we will demonstrate that as bad as you think it is, it's worse.

2. Examine the Fading American Dream

We'll take an honest look at how we compare to other developed nations. 
Most of us still view our country through the lens of the Amer¬ican Dream and American "exceptionalism." We see ourselves as leading the world in just about everything that is good and just. As virtually every politician likes to say, we are the shining light of freedom and prosperity, blessed by God.

Most Americans believe that the U.S. has the most upward mobility and highest standard of living in the world. We think that the U.S. is the fairest nation on Earth, offering the best prospects for everyday people. (And for anyone who isn't moving up, it's their own fault.)

But the facts in this book will undermine that perspective. While America may have had the most prosperous working class from World War II to 1980, it doesn't anymore. In fact, today the U.S. is the most unequal country in the developed world. We have the most child poverty and homelessness. We have more people in prison than China and Russia. And Americans are less upwardly mobile than most Europeans.

We'll see that our public services don't stack up either. Our health care costs more, covers fewer people and produces worse outcomes. And we are nearly last among developed nations in energy effi¬ciency and overall infrastructure.

No question about it, the top 1 percent never had it so good. But the rest of us are losing sight of the American Dream as runaway inequality accelerates.

3. Empower ourselves with the big picture 
From years of conducting economic workshops for adults, we've learned that having a clear overview of what is going on is remark¬ably empowering for people. When you can step back and see how it all fits together, the world makes more sense.

We'll work hard at presenting that big, wide view, because most of us never have a chance to see it. You just can't get an accurate picture of the economy as a whole through the everyday media or the jumble of internet sources. We hear snippets about stock markets, government debt, trade, unemployment and inflation. What we don't hear about is the context, substantive explanation, or critical questioning about why any of this is happening and how it relates to our daily lives.

Most of all, the media turns a blind eye to the fact that we live in a capitalist system. We're never allowed to get outside that box so we can look at it and see how it ticks. So we never hear about the fundamental conflict that capitalism creates between the needs and wishes of privately owned corporations and our health and well-being - or the well-being of the planet that sustains us. We don't hear about how the corporate owners' and financiers' insatiable drive for profits is eroding our standard of living. Yet these conflicts are key to understanding our new era of runaway inequality.

The picture of the economy that nearly all of us share turns out to be wrong. We are told in many different ways that the econ¬omy is like a complex machine that functions beyond the reach of human control. This machine metaphor frames our view of the economic world: It makes us think that everyone is just doing their thing in the machine, and that we each get what we deserve, more or less. It obscures the reality that there is, in fact, a fundamental conflict between employees and owners, between the rich and the rest of us.

The big picture we'll present makes a lot more sense than the chopped up version that bombards us each day. Yes, the economic system is complex and yes, it is very hard to control. But its funda¬mental direction is set by humans who serve particular interests. We will see how powerful people chose to dramatically change the economy's direction a generation ago, and how working people have been paying the price ever since. Runaway inequality is not an act of God. It is the result of a system designed by and for wealthy elites.

4. Come to a common understanding so we can build a common movement 
We offer this, our most ambitious goal, with the utmost humility: We aim to help build a broad-based movement for economic and environmental justice.

Right now, we lack a robust mass movement with the power to reclaim our economy and our democracy to make it work for the 99 percent.

Instead, we have thousands of individual groups working on every issue from fracking to a living wage. We have unions fighting for their members and worker centers fighting for immigrant rights. We have protests ranging from Occupy Wall Street to Black Lives Matter to climate justice. We have hundreds of progressive websites and jour¬nals to cover all this activity. But we do not have a coherent national movement with a clear and bold agenda that links us together.

We will show that runaway inequality is at the root of many of the problems we face, including the meteoric and disastrous rise of the financial sector, defunding of the public sector, environmental destruction, increased racial discrimination, the gender gap in wages and the rise of our mammoth prison population. And we will posit that if we share a clear understanding of runaway inequality - and the basic economic situation we face - we can begin to build a common, broad-based movement for fundamental economic justice that will take on America's economic elites.

The political system will not move unless we organize on a mass level like the Populists did over a hundred years ago, like the trade union movement did in the 1930s and like the Civil Rights movement did in the 1950s and 1960s.

Some liberal economists and politicians appeal to the self-inter¬est of the super-rich. They argue that the rich would be (even) better off if they would just allow a fairer distribution of income and wealth. We disagree. Expecting the wealthy to help us secure basic fairness is a losing proposition. 
Economic elites will only give up power and wealth when they're forced to do so by a powerful social movement.

So this book has far-reaching but difficult to achieve goals. It outlines an economic analysis and economic solutions that can connect us and enable us to build a broad, common movement. Such a common economic analysis does not by itself bring us together. But it will be very hard to create a powerful mass move¬ment without one.

To achieve these goals the book is divided into four parts:

Part 1: Causes of Runaway Inequality analyzes how wealth is extracted from all of us by Wall Street.

Part 2: The Decline of American Exceptionalism examines America's ranking on key economic and social issues in comparison to other developed nations.

Part 3: Separate Issues, Common Cause shows the major impact of runaway inequality on a series of issues that often are viewed independently.

Part 4: Solutions reviews a range of policies and actions that will be needed to bring more economic and social justice to America.

In the end this book makes one essential point again and again. Runaway inequality comes at a steep price. The money that enriches the few is extracted from all that we hold dear - our public life, our incomes, our health and the education of our children. It is making poor the richest country on Earth. . . . Until we do something about it.Remember the time Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) met with Sandra Bland's mother and shamelessly used it for political capital?

Neither do we, because -- though the Democratic presidential candidate apparently did meet Geneva Reed-Veal -- he didn't tell anyone about it. He did, however, promise to #SayHerName, which he did Tuesday during the first Democratic presidential debate.


The tale of Sanders' chance encounter with Reed-Veal comes via the Rev. Hannah Bonner, who bumped into Sanders at Union Station in Washington last week while she was eating with Reed-Veal, and invited the presidential candidate to join their table.

Bonner wrote in her blog recalling the meeting that she "was completely blown away by the unexpectedness of it all, the sacredness of the moment, and the sincerity of all involved."

Bonner wrote that after they talked: 

We asked Senator Sanders if we could take a picture with him and he consented. He did not impose upon Ms. Geneva to ask for a picture of his own. He did not use the moment as an opportunity to promote his campaign. He took no record, he made no statement. He did not try to turn it into a publicity stunt. He simply made space for a sacred moment, and then let it pass without trying to gain anything from it. 
For that, I respect him. For that, I am grateful. That choice may not have made him a very good politician, but it made him a better man.