Ten years ago, Mark Pischea, then a 42-year-old political consultant and father of five from Williamston, Michigan, was rushed to the hospital with severe stomach pain.

Pischea was diagnosed with Crohn's disease, a chronic autoimmune condition that can cause extreme abdominal discomfort, weight loss, fatigue and fevers. For the next decade of his life, the formerly healthy husband and father lived in a constant cycle of flare-ups, surgery and recovery.

After his fifth surgery, Pischea was bedridden for six weeks. At that point, he was told his only remaining options were a sixth surgery or the removal of his stomach. He said that he felt ready to die.

But there was, in fact, one other option, albeit an unconventional one. At his wife’s insistence, Pischea got out of bed, boarded a plane and made his way down to a rustic healing center in San Roque de Cumbasa, a tiny village in the Peruvian Amazon.

Pischea spent most of the next three weeks in solitude, following a strict dieta of rice, plantains and specially prepared plant teas. Several times a day, he met with a shaman named Antonio, who prescribed him local plants known to induce vomiting, as a way to cleanse the body and "reboot" the immune system. The shaman's recommendations also included ayahuasca, a potent hallucinogenic brew, and kambo, the venom of a rain forest tree frog.

Four months later, Pischea is free of not only his Crohn’s symptoms, but also the depression that had developed alongside his sickness.

“For me, being symptom-free is nothing short of a miracle,” he told The Huffington Post. "I'm thankful for each day that I'm feeling well."

Looking for answers
Pischea is one of a rapidly growing number of Americans struggling with cancer, chronic disease, mental illness and other ailments who have turned to the Amazon for answers that modern medicine has failed to provide them.

“I went to the top Crohn’s clinics in the world and saw the top doctors in the world, and none of them could help me,” Pischea said. “There is a curative quality to the plants in the jungle that you really need to be there in that environment to experience. I think it really does work.”

But the potential medicinal resources of the Amazon -- especially the 80,000 plants native to the region, and the shamanic knowledge that often exists only in oral form among the disappearing tribes -- remains largely untapped. Despite the fact that 25 percent of modern pharmaceuticals are derived from rain forest plants, currently less than 1 percent of tropical plants have been analyzed for medical purposes.

Even the plant medicines that are commonly used by shamans, as the indigenous medicine men and women are called, are poorly understood by Western doctors. So far, there has been little research aimed at evaluating indigenous plant medicine and shamanic treatment protocols.

But that’s beginning to change. Now, a large-scale new research project is creating the opportunity for a meeting of the minds between traditional and modern medicine, between shamans and scientists.

In Ecuador and Peru, the Runa Foundation -- a nonprofit that does conservation work in the Amazon and provides opportunities for economic advancement to indigenous peoples -- is working with a new initiative, PlantMed, to build medical clinics for the research of plant medicine, facilities that will be the first of their kind.

"What we’re doing is trying to put together a multidisciplinary team that involves Western-trained physicians and psychologists as well as the shamans that are indigenous to these areas," Dr. Mauro Zappaterra, a Harvard-trained physician who is on the advisory board of the forthcoming clinics, told The Huffington Post. "It’s bringing together the best minds from Western medicine and from Amazonian, or shamanic, medicine... to create an even better medicine that incorporates all of it."  

Looking to the rain forest for the next miracle drug is hardly a new practice. Pharmaceutical companies have been sending ethnobotanists to the rain forest for decades to test and collect plants with potential medicinal properties. But for all this exploration, there’s been little collaboration between these medical researchers and the people who have been harnessing the healing powers of these plants for thousands of years.

That kind of collaboration is at the core of PlantMed's mission. At the Naku Center, located in an area of rich biodiversity deep in the Ecuadorian Amazon, researchers from Stanford, Yale and other institutions will work with healers from the Sapara tribe, an endangered society of fewer than 600 people. At the Rios Nete center in Peru, researchers will work with the Shipibo, a larger tribe whose members are well-known for their medicinal wisdom.

At each center, an M.D. and a shaman, with the support of a team of wellness practitioners and clinicians, will care for an initial group of 15 patients using shamanic protocols, while the researchers analyze their treatments using modern technology. The facilities are slated to open early next year.

While modern medicine is the most sophisticated healing system ever designed, it’s “still got a lot of holes in it,” said Dr. Mark Plotkin, an Amazonian ethnobotanist, conservationist and author of the 1994 book Tales of a Shaman’s Apprentice.

“All you've got to do is look at pancreatic cancer, insomnia, acid reflux, stress -- all these things that Western medicine can't cure -- to realize we need alternatives or additions,” Plotkin told HuffPost. “As Westerners, we're taught that anything that isn't done by a white guy in a lab coat isn't science, but that obviously isn't true.” 


RAINE DONOHUE/RUNA FOUNDATION
Dr. Gerard Valentine, a psychiatrist and researcher at the Yale School of Medicine and an adviser for Rios Nete, says that PlantMed's clinics are “poised to translate an overlooked trove of botanical knowledge into novel, practical and evidence-based modes of treatment.”

Patients will stay at the clinics for anywhere from three weeks to four months, depending on their diagnosis and disease progression. They’ll be assigned both a lead M.D. and a lead traditional healer, who will work together on their case.

“As Westerners, we're taught that anything that's not done by a white guy in a lab coat isn't science, but that obviously isn't true.”
For each patient, the shaman will conduct a holistic assessment of his or her physical, mental, emotional and spiritual state. The patient will then be given a plant medicine treatment protocol intended to address what the shaman has determined to be the root cause of the patient's ailment. Meanwhile, the researchers will analyze the shaman's treatment methods and plant prescriptions, measuring various biomarkers of disease in the patients before and after treatment, and noting both positive and adverse effects.

“It’s creating not only a research center, but a healing center," Zappaterra said. "Doing research is how you move medicine forward. You ask questions to investigate. Collect the data, analyze the data. See what the effects are, see what the side effects are."

The first order of business at the clinics? Finding a cure for autoimmune disease.

When the body attacks itself
More than 50 million Americans -- that’s 1 in 5 people -- suffer from some form of autoimmune disease, of which there are more than 80 known types, including lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, Type 1 diabetes and multiple sclerosis. Of those 50 million people, 75 percent are women.

While treatments with varying degrees of efficacy have been developed, there is no known cure. Some patchwork solutions exist, but rarely are doctors able to identify and address the root causes that have led the immune system to start attacking its own healthy tissue. Often, doctors rely on immunosuppressant drugs such as corticosteroids to shut down the immune system. These drugs carry many side effects and are not always effective.  

“There are many autoimmune disorders that affect millions of people around the world, for which there are no cures, and treatments are far from successful," Runa co-founder Tyler Gage told HuffPost. "So we see a major window for plant medicine to contribute."

Autoimmune diseases are difficult for doctors even to diagnose, since they're often heralded by a nebulous constellation of symptoms like fatigue, clouded thinking, frequent colds and feelings of general malaise. For U.S. patients who have been diagnosed with some kind of autoimmune disease, it takes an average of five years and five doctors just to receive a diagnosis, according to the American Autoimmune-Related Diseases Association.

These diseases are mysterious and multifaceted. One possible reason that many anecdotal reports have found shamanic treatments to be effective in treating autoimmune conditions is that they look at the patient holistically, taking into account mental and emotional factors.

“Many researchers are now focusing on ‘psychogenetic’ components of autoimmune disorders, and understanding the psychosomatic origin and nature in these diseases,” said Gage. “The treatment strategies in Amazonian medicine invariably focus on the patient's interrelated psychological, emotional, physical and spiritual well-being, and often target the intersecting points of these layers.”

In his 2003 book on the link between stress and sickness, When The Body Says No, the Canadian physician Dr. Gabor Maté writes that in nearly every autoimmune patient he has worked with, "underlying emotional repression was an ever-present factor."

Indeed, a growing body of research has found that stress, childhood trauma, anxiety and other psychosocial factors can play a role in the development of autoimmunity. One study found that patients with rheumatoid arthritis often report having experienced emotional neglect and abuse in childhood, while another found that MS patients exhibit "insecurity that drives their need to seek greater love." Similarly, lupus patients frequently report histories of childhood emotional deprivation.

This is just one possibility. It could also be the case that some aspect of the Amazonian plants' unique chemical makeup is particularly well-suited to addressing immune system disregulation.

“It may be that the nature of autoimmune disorders -- which in many cases is the body's inability to distinguish between itself and ‘not itself’ -- involve more of a simple on/off switch that something within the plants' biochemistry or the way they're administered is able to address,” Rios Nete co-founder Luke Weil told HuffPost in an email.

It’s important to note that shamanic medicine is no magic bullet for autoimmune disease, and it may not be effective for many or even most patients. Still, it seems likely that by learning more about plant-based medicine, we can help advance our understanding of these mysterious diseases, and we just might move toward better treatments in the process.

“The shamans say that God didn’t create a disease without creating a cure,” Pischea said. “The cures are there. We just need to find them.”

Tribes on the brink of extinction
There’s a very good chance that we won’t find these cures, however, if the rampant destruction of the rain forest continues. At a time when people in the West are living longer and sicker than ever before, and chronic diseases have a yearly impact of over $1.3 trillion on the U.S. economy, the Amazon is a largely untapped resource that we can’t afford not to utilize. 

As indigenous cultures like the Sapara and Shipibo teeter on the brink of extinction -- the Sapara, once a thriving tribe of more than 200,000 people, has dwindled to a group of just 575 -- their vast medicinal knowledge, much of which is not preserved anywhere in writing, is likely to disappear along with them.

This would be a grave loss. The Sapara have made profound advances in plant medicine, having established numerous uses for more than 500 different local plants, but little of this knowledge has made its way into Western medicine.


RAINE DONOHUE/RUNA FOUNDATION
As the Sapara chief told PlantMed, the tribe's members have a vision of spreading their knowledge.

"They are eager to share their medicine and traditions with the world in a way that is respectful and scientific," said Gage.

PlantMed is in a unique position to make this vision a reality. The organization has had relationships with the tribes for close to a decade, and is devoted to sharing their knowledge in a respectful way.

Such a collaboration, unfortunately, would be the exception, not the historical norm. The knowledge of native peoples has been exploited by pharmaceutical companies too many times to count. As Plotkin pointed out last year in a popular TED talk, when a billion-dollar AIDS drug was developed from the venom of a Brazilian snake long used for medicinal purposes by native peoples, the Brazilians didn’t see a penny of that money.

“There's a wrong way to [work with these tribes], which has been done before, and a right way to do this, which we have an outline for, but it isn't being done,” Plotkin told HuffPost.

The new research centers could be that “right way.”

“We see the clinic as a platform to nurture and empower the knowledge held by these communities, as well as the plants that underpin these treatments -- particularly as both are disappearing rapidly,” Weil said. “We aim to demonstrate their value to the rest of the world with the hope of arresting this destruction.”

Pischea, too, hopes that these treatments will be available to others who are struggling with chronic diseases. Today, he is enjoying good health and renewed energy. There’s always a risk that his symptoms could return, as is the case with any autoimmune condition, but he’s taking it one day at a time.

“The potential is that a lot of people who are suffering unnecessarily could feel better,” he said. “I think even many Western doctors are starting to see that there are answers that are beyond textbooks, and that they need to be open to whatever will do right by their patients.”The new East-West Center study finds that peri-urban areas where genetic, environmental and social factors converge were at significantly higher risk for outbreaks of highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza in Vietnam

A new study led by East-West Center researchers and funded by the National Science Foundation has confirmed suspicions that "peri-urban" areas at the outer fringes of cities are particular hot spots for the emergence of animal-to-human infectious diseases.

2015-10-16-1445032353-8407989-vietnamchickenhealthjournalism_03.jpgThe study led by EWC researchers Sumeet Saksena and Jefferson Fox and published in the open-access journal PLOS ONE, focused on outbreaks of the highly pathogenic avian influenza, or HPAI, strain H5N1 in Vietnam between 2003 and 2005, which resulted in 45 million bird deaths and 106 confirmed human cases with 52 deaths. Their research concluded that the outbreaks in large part sprang from converging environmental and social risk factors brought on by development in these rural-urban transition zones (peri-urban areas), confirming what is known as the "convergence model" of animal-human disease emergence.

"Our research model for the first time presents data-based evidence for the common-sense notion that the process of urbanization combines risk factors to produce peri-urban landscapes with significantly higher potential for infectious disease emergence," said lead researcher Saksena.
The study notes that these areas have higher densities of domestic chickens, ducks and geese living alongside dense human populations, creating ideal conditions for HPAI transmission. Previous research suggested that disease outbreaks can be associated with environmental changes as societies evolve, but this is the first study of its kind to examine land-use diversity as a risk factor for H5N1. "Land-use diversity serves as a proxy measure for mixing of virus host species," said project Principal Investigator Fox.

Since 2003, the virus has killed millions of poultry birds in countries throughout Asia, Europe and Africa, and 402 humans have died from it in 16 countries, according to World Health Organization data as of January 2015. Just this year in the Midwestern United States, 48.8 million poultry were affected across 21 states with a strain of HPAI - although it is important to note that this strain is not a threat for spread to humans. The biggest known outbreak of bird flu in U.S. history, the epidemic has hit flocks in Iowa and Minnesota the hardest, where producers are scrambling to implement bio-security measures.

Researchers said the East-West Center study implies the need to go beyond facility-level bio-security measures. Planners need to develop and implement landscape-level bio-security measures to improve emerging infectious disease prevention and control, they said, by combining geographic monitoring of risk factors along with pathogen surveillance programs.

The East-West Center promotes better relations and understanding among the people and nations of the United States, Asia, and the Pacific through cooperative study, research, and dialogue. Established by the U.S. Congress in 1960 and based in Honolulu, Hawai'i, the Center serves as a resource for information and analysis on critical issues of common concern, bringing people together to exchange views, build expertise, and develop policy options.Since the discovery of DNA, people have anticipated how deciphering the secrets in our genes might one day transform medicine. The first commonly used genetic tests appeared in the 1970s and the full human genome was sequenced in 2003. But it is only in the past decade, as sequencing technology advanced rapidly and the price tag plummeted, that genomic medicine has started to become a reality.(a) We're finally gaining access to a huge piece of the medical puzzle - our genetic code - that was previously missing.

The spread of genomics is launching a "new era" in medicine, according to Dr. Alexander Parker, an epidemiologist and the Associate Director of the Mayo Clinic's Center for Individualized Medicine (CIM) in Florida.(b) We're transitioning from a one-size-fits-all model to a world of individualized medicine that is tailored to each patient's genomic profile. Parker emphasizes that genomic medicine isn't just a "promise for the future" - genomics has already begun to impact nearly every area of medicine and help patients in ways that would have been impossible even a few years ago.1

Genomics can serve as a powerful diagnostic tool, particularly for patients with rare, unidentified conditions who have spent years searching for a diagnosis. Physicians can sequence and search a patient's genome for potentially relevant genetic markers, then cross-check those against databases documenting the health effects of thousands of mutations found in other patients.

The power of genomics as a diagnostic tool can be seen in the case of Jim, a 23-year-old patient suffering from uncontrollable spasms and tremors.3 Before coming to the Mayo Clinic, his "diagnostic odyssey" spanned five neurologists and a series of clinical and genetic tests that failed to provide any conclusive answers. At CIM, Jim, his parents, and his sister had their entire genomes sequenced, analyzed, and compared. The technicians were able to identify a mutation in a gene called KCNA1 that produces a potassium channel in cells, which finally led to a diagnosis for his condition - a neuromuscular disorder called episodic ataxia type 1.

Genomics is also transforming treatment for diseases like cancer by enabling physicians to tailor therapy to the DNA profile of each patient and their tumors. Parker shared the story of Elizabeth, a 44-year-old with metastasizing gall bladder cancer who tried both standard and experimental therapies without success.3 Analysis of her tumor cells at CIM revealed a mutation in a gene called FGFR2. She was given chemotherapy known to be effective against tumors with this specific mutation, a treatment that Parker says probably never would have been tried otherwise.

The personalized oncology that patients like Elizabeth are now able to receive is driven by research into the genomics of cancer. Projects like the National Institute of Health's Cancer Genome Atlas and the Mayo Clinic's Breast Cancer Genome-Guided Therapy study catalog the genetic factors involved in various cancers and identify which treatments are most effective for different genetic markers and cancer types. Pharmaceutical companies are also developing therapies targeted to specific types of cancer. For example, the cancer drug Gleevec has been called a "miracle drug" for its ability to target a chromosomal abnormality connected with certain types of leukemia.

The concept of tailored treatment is also taking root in the realm of prescription drugs, launching a field known as pharmacogenomics. While patients tend to overlook how pharmaceuticals actually work inside the body - pop a pill and the problem is gone - in reality there is wide variation in how the same drug acts on different people's bodies. For instance, the anticoagulant warfarin successfully prevents blood clots in many patients, but can send people with certain genetic markers to the edges of the spectrum, either causing clots or resulting in hemmoraghing.4

Pharmacogenomics focuses on this kind of variation in outcomes and uses genomic information to determine which drug at what dose will be most effective and cause the least side effects for a particular patient. In the case of warfarin, the FDA now requires that its label provide information on the genomic variability of its effects and offer dosage ranges tailored to different genotypes.

Genomic medicine will continue to transform the diagnosis and treatment of diseases from cancer to clotting disorders.2 But its biggest impact may prove to be its predictive power, allowing doctors to anticipate patients' future health problems and take action before they get sick.(c) The imprecise measures currently used to estimate a patient's risk of disease, like family history and general population statistics, will be augmented with genomic information that can provide a much more precise picture of someone's health risks.

Fortunately, the blueprint written in our DNA is not immutable, and lifestyle changes can reduce the risk of many chronic conditions. Epigenetics, the study of how gene expression is affected by environment and behavior, will help doctors advise patients on the preventive measures they can take to address the particular dangers their DNA holds.

Given the numerous ways genetic information will be used to improve our health, experts anticipate that within the next decade or two many of us will have our full genome sequenced and available in our medical records. Dr. Michael Christman, President of the Coriell Institute for Medical Research, predicts we'll probably have many different sequences on file, from our genome at birth to our microbiome (the bacteria and other microorganisms in our body) and even our blood.(d)

Having every patient's full genome available may sound like a doctor's dream come true, but, like any transformative technology, it also raises concerns. There are scientific and medical questions about when our knowledge of the genome will catch up with our ability to map it, and whether patients will be able to understand genetic findings without being overwhelmed by all the information their genome holds.

There are also economic, legal, and ethical concerns around issues like genetic privacy and access to testing for those who can't afford it. Scientists and clinicians are beginning to focus not only on the medical questions, but also the social ones. Researchers like Mayo Clinic geneticist Gloria Petersen are incorporating into genomics research bioethical questions about the proper use and disclosure of genetic information.

One day soon, DNA analysis may be as routine a part of a doctor's visit as a hearing check or a cholesterol test.(e) While we aren't there yet, we're already seeing the impact of genomics in fields from cancer treatment to pharmacology. Genomic medicine isn't a far-off promise, it's a reality that is helping patients today and laying the groundwork for a future where every patient receives care tailored to his or her unique genomic profile.

Sidenotes

(a) The sequencing of the first human genome was the result of a collaborative international effort known as the Human Genome Project. Launched in 1990, the project was completed in 2003 at a total cost of nearly $3 billion. A little over a decade later, the price of sequencing one person's DNA has dropped to around $4,000.

(b) The Mayo Clinic Center for Individualized Medicine (CIM) was launched in 2012 to advance research and clinical practice in the field of genomic medicine.2 The Center researches and tests new techniques and works with doctors across Mayo to incorporate genomic medicine into their practice.

(c) While genomics is the crux of predictive medicine, the field also incorporates insights from proteomics, the analysis of proteins in a person's body, and cytomics, the study of their cells.

(d) The microbiome is the bacteria and other microorganisms living in our bodies. The foreign cells in our body outnumber the human cells by a factor of ten to one. Scientists are now beginning to catalog, genetically sequence, and analyze our microbiome through efforts like the Human Microbiome Project.

(e) To advance the development of genomic medicine, President Obama recently launched the Precision Medicine Initiative, one of the first major federal initiatives in this field. As part of the announcement, he asked Congress for $215 million to fund related research.

Malfunctioning robots can be scary as heck -- just ask the Avengers, or the crew of Discovery One. But as it turns out, we actually tend to like flawed robots a little bit better than perfect ones.

New research from the School of Computer Science at the University of Lincoln in Lincoln, England, shows that humans prefer interacting with robots that make mistakes, express "boredom" or become overexcited. In the study, participants interacted with two types of robots. In the first phase, the robots didn’t make mistakes or express "emotions," but in the second phase, both robots let loose, so to speak.

A robot called ERWIN -- short for Emotional Robot With Intelligent Network -- "failed" to remember participants' names and favorite colors during the second phase, and displayed a sad expression on its face. The other robot, MyKeepon, which is small and yellow, showed "happiness" by dancing and making joyful noises, and exhibited "sadness" by making unhappy noises, looking at the ground and standing still.

The researchers "overwhelmingly found" that people "paid attention for longer and actually enjoyed the fact that a robot could make common mistakes, forget facts and express more extreme emotions, just as humans can," said Mriganka Biswas, the Ph.D. student who conducted the research, in a Tuesday press release.

“We believe that if we want robots to stay at our home and help us in our daily tasks then [people will need] to have some form of relationships with it,” Biswas wrote in an email to The Huffington Post. “Our study suggests to make the robot more user-friendly, more close and personal to its users by making it human-like and fallible, so that users can more easily relate.”

So does this research bring us one step closer to HAL?

“We think the world is completely safe from our 3D printed humanoid robot,” Biswas wrote.

Still, this seems a good moment as any to consider the flaws of some notorious robots from fiction. Any conversation about rocky human-robot relations, for example, has to include the Sentinels from the Wachowskis' "Matrix" trilogy. Humans created them for cheap domestic help and manual labor. Yet in time, they took over the earth and began using humans like Duracells.


The Cylons of "Battlestar Galactica," like the Sentinels, were created to “make life easier for man.” The Cylons are significantly better-looking than the Sentinels, but they turn out to be just as deadly. After destroying nearly all human civilization, they chase the few survivors into deep space.


In Colossus, a 1966 science fiction classic by D.F. Jones, Dr. Charles Forbin builds the titular supercomputer in the hopes of preventing nuclear war. Things go awry when Forbin tries to make the computer self-aware, and it realizes it would be better off without human supervision. Perhaps, Forbin observes, he built the machine “better than we thought.”

In our fantasies, intelligent robots don’t always result in loss of life. Sometimes they just cause heartbreak. (Poor Hoffmann.) In Spike Jonze's 2013 film "Her," Joaquin Phoenix’s character purchases and then falls in love with Samantha, a operating system whose sex appeal derives in no small part from its bedroom voice (courtesy of Scarlett Johansson). But Samantha, too, has a flaw that makes her all too human. When she feels that Phoenix's character isn't challenging her exponentially growing intellect, she leaves him.

By now, you've probably heard the troubling statistics. Some 35,000 African elephants are killed every year for their ivory. Tanzania has lost nearly 60 percent of its elephant population in just five years as the sky-high price of ivory drives poachers to risk their lives for a quick payday.

But for famed National Geographic explorers Dereck and Beverly Joubert, the fight for these creatures is far from over. The filmmakers have spent their lives documenting the beauty of imperiled animals from lions to rhinos. Now, they're turning to elephants.

The Huffington Post sat down with the Jouberts ahead of the premiere of their new documentary, Soul of the Elephant, for the PBS program "Nature." They spoke about the peaceful nature of the pachyderms, the lengths matriarchs will go to to save their families and why it's absurd to think of these great creatures as solely animals removed from humanity. 

This interview has been edited for length and clarity.

We think of elephants as massive creatures that rule the savannah. But is it actually hard to kill an elephant when you pair it against a human with an assault rifle?

Dereck Joubert: It's as hard to kill an elephant as it is to kill a [door]. These things are huge animals, you can hardly miss them. Shooting an elephant is not a challenge at all, and you can virtually walk right up to them and shoot them.

Why there's such hype around killing the Big Five [the African lion, African elephant, Cape buffalo, African leopard and rhinoceros] is a mystery. The Big Five hunting philosophy is the five most dangerous animals on the planet, certainly in Africa. But almost all of them are really easy to kill.

They just look good on the wall because they're big.

<span class='image-component__caption' itemprop="caption">Wildlife filmmakers Dereck and Beverly Joubert investigate a submerged elephant skull in Botswana.</span>
CREDIT: MICHAEL YELSETH/© WILDLIFE FILMS
Wildlife filmmakers Dereck and Beverly Joubert investigate a submerged elephant skull in Botswana.
In terms of numbers, how do you even conceptualize the notion that tens of thousands are killed every year? How can we comprehend that each death represents an individual animal?

Dereck: It's just impossible to imagine that it's only our species that could be individuals and the rest of all these animals are just a bunch of animals.

You can see it in the footage. You can see two little babies born at the same time that act completely different -- you get these wonderful big matriarchs that will put themselves out in front of the herd whenever there's trouble and forfeit their lives for their families.

You've spent the entirety of your career living amongst these animals. After years of troubling statistics, do you still get angry?

Beverly Joubert: What really pushes us forward is the destruction to these animals. We get incredibly angry, and I think that's why we live our lives to a point that we don't have a break. We're looking at one species after another because we know that we could be losing the battle if we don't keep going on.

Man is ignorance. We feel that we've got to create a better awareness, and if we don't, we're going to have a lot of species going extinct, and elephants are on that path.

Dereck: [Last week], 14 elephants were killed with cyanide poisoning in Zimbabwe, and I don't know if that makes me angry or just disappoints me in humanity. You go, "Surely, surely by know everybody understands that elephants are these beautiful creatures that you need to protect." And yet some assholes out there lay cyanide poison to kill baby elephants.

<span class='image-component__caption' itemprop="caption">Filmmaker Dereck Joubert (left foreground) films a herd of elephants from the water in Botswana.</span>
CREDIT: BEVERLY JOUBERT/© WILDLIFE FILMS
Filmmaker Dereck Joubert (left foreground) films a herd of elephants from the water in Botswana.
We often see comments on stories we publish where readers call on governments to just kill these poachers, shoot them on sight. What's your perspective on that? 

Dereck: Look, there's three pillars to this trade, there are the poachers -- the people acquiring the ivory -- there are the traders and there's the demand side out there.

There's two kind of poachers, you'll get the guy that's really poor that goes out and shoots a springbok or an impala and shoots one to get the meat. It's illegal; he should go to jail. The second kind, he's the guy that sees the commercial value in this, and risks a lot more. He knows that he's doing it illegally; he's not doing it as a subsistence poacher. What we have to do is isolate each.

In Botswana, if antipoaching forces come across somebody out there, what they do is say 'You're surrounded, put down your guns.' But if there's any movement to pick up a gun the rangers will shoot to kill. You have to be harsh about it; this is all a game of risk and reward. What our message here in Botswana is, if you come in here and you poach on our land, the risk is very, very high. There's a fair chance you're going to get shot.

Beverly: So stay away. 

Does it work?

Beverly: You know, we work with the village kids and we're working with women in the villages to try and give them better health, better community, respect and a craft. With both the kids and the women, we're trying to assist them in not having anybody go that way [into poaching] and helping them have a profession so they don't. 

If we get them a profession and a job, at the end of the day they won't go and poach. And in fact, most of the guys that we've taught from the bottom up are probably going to be the best conservationists the country will ever have. Let's turn it so you don't have a war in Botswana against poaching.

What's changed over the past 30 years? Are you encouraged when you see people get up in arms over the killing of an animal like Cecil or Satao?

Beverly: Surely, we're seeing a rise in consciousness. To see people shout out about Cecil is very encouraging. When I think of the early '80s, we made a film about these three male lions and each of them ended up on the wall somewhere, in Texas, in Spain and in New York, and the more we shouted out about it nobody did anything.

We can't stop. As soon as we think we've won the battle, someone will sneak in to restart it.

You don't really get to take a vacation, do you?

Dereck: No, we don't, because we've got work to do.

If I was writing a fantasy script 10 years ago, it would've ended with the president of America and the president of China shaking hands on an ivory ban.

[That's happened, but] we can't stop. We don't take vacations, we wake up every morning trying to devise new ways to get this message out. Because it can slip -- we've got momentum behind us, but everyone in the world needs to become a conservationist, otherwise we'll kill ourselves.Construction workers at the University of Virginia have discovered a hidden chemistry laboratory that school officials say is likely linked to former President Thomas Jefferson.

Renovations to the Rotunda, a UVA building Jefferson designed in the 1820s, revealed a chemical hearth had been hidden behind a wall, according to the university. Workers uncovered the room on Monday.

Officials say the hearth may have been designed for John Emmet, the school's first professor of natural history, to use along with a nearby classroom.

"This may be the oldest intact example of early chemical education in this country," Brian Hogg, the university's senior historic preservation planner, said in a news release.

<span class='image-component__caption' itemprop="caption">The hearth discovered in the Rotunda at the University of Virginia.</span>
DAN ADDISON
The hearth discovered in the Rotunda at the University of Virginia.
Science students used the five workspaces in the primitive lab setting to perform chemical experiments, the release said. Like a modern lab, the hearth contained heat sources and a ventilation system to remove fumes.

The hearth was walled off in 1850 and survived a major fire that destroyed a large portion of the building in 1895, according to the university.

Once the renovations are complete, the school said, the hearth will become part of a permanent display.